This project illuminates which topics dominate The Guardian’s news articles about climate change and attempts to uncover which narratives are being sidelined in the media. The graph below is based on a collection of ~600 news articles from The Guardian, feel free to play about with the settings on the tab to your left. Below the graph is a short essay that integrates concepts from the discipline of politics to the NLP project. The graph’s data will hereafter be updated every 2-weeks to ensure this website’s continued relevance. Statistics and visualisations for other major UK news organisations will be added in the coming weeks when API keys have been sourced. This will allow for comparative analysis of how different outlets present climate narratives! Get in contact if you want to help fund this project (aka funding access to API keys) at cc_narrative_research@gmail.com. 
The issue with marginalised climate narratives is one of hermeneutical injustice. As described by Langton (2010), hermeneutical injustice is when citizens lack the proper terminology to express themselves because they have been restricted from certain experiences. In this project, hermeneutical injustice appears through the marginalisation of climate narratives restricting citizen’s knowledge of climate threats and terminology. For example, feedback loops and climate tipping points were not picked up by the NLP algorithm as a topic. This suggests that readers of The Guardian are not learning about the existence of climate feedback loops and the threat of climate tipping points. Consequently, the lack of knowledge limits political agency. For example, if one knew a major climate tipping point was eminent, they may be more inclined to use their political agency to protest or write to their MP.
Classical realism posits that state behaviour is explained by a need to maintain power and survive against all other states (Morgenthau, 1948). We can employ classical realism as a superconcept (Gombrich & Peterson, 2024), in other words extract its idea of ‘survival as a first priority’ out of its origin in the discipline of international relations and into this project’s question of media narratives. Here the superconcept of classical realism explains that The Guardian and other news organisations must publish popular, relevant, and attention-grabbing articles because of their inherent need for survival, i.e. the continuation of the organisation and the continuation of publishing news articles. Therefore, one must be specific when critiquing the marginalisation of climate narratives. It remains important to highlight when topics of climate change are missing from mainstream media. However, it must come alongside a reflection of the news organisation’s ability to do share those articles. For example, an article on the impact of climate change on a forest near Bristol likely won’t engage a national audience, putting The Guardian’s ability to sustain themselves as an organisation slightly more at risk. Cumulatively, decisions like these could signal the end for The Guardian. Hence why it should be expected for popular, relevant, and attention-grabbing climate topics to appear in the news.
One solution to the complex problem of hermeneutical injustice in climate narratives is awareness. There is potential to expand this project, scraping the internet for the latest news articles from a wide array of sources – new books, journal articles, news articles from different organisations, etc. – to provide a climate change webpage that enables anyone to access a broad range of the latest climate knowledge, while forgoing the requirements of classical realism because of its non-profit status.
Langton, R. (2010). Review of ‘Epistemic Injustice: Power and the Ethics of Knowing’ by Fricker, M. Hypatia, 25(2), pp. 459–464. http://www.jstor.org/stable/40602716
Gombrich, C. & Peterson, A. (1 May 2024). Teaching for Synthesis at The London Interdisciplinary School. Daedalus, 153(2), pp. 217–223. https://direct.mit.edu/daed/article/153/2/217/121273 
Morgenthau, H. (1948). Politics Among Nations: The Struggle for Power and Peace. Alfred A. Knopf.